## GMD Past Meetings

#### Connection Details:
Join: https://unomaha.zoom.us/j/720431288
Or Telephone: 1-408-638-0968 (Meeting ID: 720-431-288)
International Numbers: https://unomaha.zoom.us/zoomconference?m=DKGo2mmIuOv9xSjphoGZZmYKxr5HFrS9

#### Video of GMD Meetings:
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A31mGjBM2Io&list=PL60k37cxI-HQ4HaF4iVuoByt5Qxw0ebRP
Quick Reference Links:
Focus Areas:
https://github.com/chaoss/wg-gmd/tree/master/focus_areas
Methods and Metrics Pages:
https://github.com/chaoss/wg-gmd/tree/master/detail_metrics_methods

#### Mailing list
We use the [CHAOSS mailing list](https://chaoss.community/participate/#user-content-join-the-mailing-list).
Please append email subject with: [wg-gmd]

#### How can you contribute?
Start by introducing yourself on the [CHAOSS mailing list](https://chaoss.community/participate/#user-content-join-the-mailing-list) explaining your interest. Please see the CHAOSS [CONTRIBUTING.md](https://github.com/chaoss/governance/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md)

We are committed to providing an inclusive and welcoming environment. Please see our [Code of Conduct.](https://github.com/chaoss/governance/blob/master/code-of-conduct.md)

--------------

#### Wednesday, October 24th
9:00 am PDT / 18:00 CEST

#### Oct-24 Agenda:
1. Discuss meeting weekly on the agenda... maybe meeting weekly with a monthly meeting to make final decisions ...
2. Discuss Pending Pull Requests
https://github.com/chaoss/wg-gmd/pulls
3. New Items to Discuss or Questions
4. Actionable Items

#### Minutes
##### Use Case Discussion:
* How can expert users contribute use cases
* Google doc (D&I) - Edit use cases in google docs?
* Blog post?
* Pull Requests to Repository
* Work done in the open?
* Need consistency
* Keep use cases close to the user not necessarily aligned with the workgroup
* Use Case Format?
* Typically have 7 or 8 headings
* Use case structure that SPDX uses
https://github.com/spdx/spdx-github/wiki/Webhook-Use-Case

##### Workflow Discussion:
* There should be consistency in work flows and should be documented.
* Procedures file?
* How to contribute document?
https://github.com/chaoss/wg-diversity-inclusion/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md
* We need an actual workflow document
  * How to contribute procedurally and how to actually do stuff? - Process and structure.
* Add contribute messages to documents

Last meeting we discussed moving from a bottom-up approach (defining metrics/methods then creating questions goals and use cases) to a top-down approach (defining questions then creating use cases and metrics/methods as needed). However discussions can still continue on metrics/methods.

#### Metrics Methods Discussion:
* Issues are a little different in Bugzilla vs GitHub
* How can we map to these ideas? Trying to be precise.
* Discussion of issues.open.md
  * Time and Aggregation period?
  * File name changed creating a merge conflict

Add a description of what we consider a GMD metric to README.
To avoid conflicts with other work groups. This is the kind of metrics we are talking about

#### Proposed Meeting Time Change:
* Move from bi-weekly to weekly meetings
* Meet every Wednesday?
* Open forum every week and monthly meeting where decisions are made
* Deciding meeting/Formal meeting is last meeting of each month

#### Risk work group will work with GMD group and share meeting times.

#### Action Items:
* Add pull request to website and GitHub. For new meeting times.
* Remove notes from readme to separate file.
* Create template and folder for Use Cases
* Create contribute and process documents


----------------------------
### October 10, 2018

  - Attendees: Alberto García-Plaza, Jesus M. Gonzales-Barahona, Matt Germonprez,
  Sean P. Goggins (lost connection), Kevin Lumbard.
  - Video of the meeting: will be available in the
  [CHAOSS Youtube channel](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCrG-a3hIc_hCEUWloG0gm9A)
  - Agenda:
    - Discuss ordered list of metrics to work on defining. With some degree of prioritization (perhaps keep in a markdown document)
    - Discuss [pending pull requests](https://github.com/chaoss/wg-gmd/pulls)
    - New items to discuss or questions
    - Action items

  - Minutes:

    - Pending approval from missing members, GMD will adopt the D&I Framework – goals, questions, and metrics  (top down approach)
      - Moving to a top down approach starting with code development goals.md then move to questions documents.
      - Example: Code Development Goal – Understand how code changes occur in repositories, Question - How many people are involved in a change?
      - Document the process for defining metrics (Start with goals, create questions around goals, identify metrics that can answer questions, and define metrics and methods..
      - Use cases may inform new goals and how we understand the questions

    - Add Use Case Folder
      - Collect use cases from members on how they use metrics and what questions they are trying to answer
      - Rename use case header from detail metric pages to remove confusion

    - Store meeting notes and past agendas on repository

    - Quick Reference Links:
      - [Focus Areas](https://github.com/chaoss/wg-gmd/tree/master/focus_areas)
      - [Methods and Metrics Pages](https://github.com/chaoss/wg-gmd/tree/master/detail_metrics_methods)

--------------

### September 26, 2018

  - Attendees: Sharan, Jesus, Alpgarcia, Vinod, Kevin, Georg
  - Video of the meeting: https://youtu.be/A31mGjBM2Io
    GMD work processes need to be ironed out ( Branch vs Separate Repo)
  - Minutes:
    - There are pros and cons for working in a Branch vs a Separate Repo.
Arguments can be made in the mailing list and we can vote or reply to reach consensus.
There is an existing thread on this topic.
    - Pending pull request merge: Use Case for detail metric forks
    - File name conventions and repo structure. Consensus on renaming
    - Some commments about Kibble and CHAOSS. Kibble examples and use Cases.
Metric Format issues.
Kibble already has code written and visualization so no sense in using Jupyter Notebook?
Are there precise definitions of kibble metrics?
Need to ensure that the definitions and methods for calculating metrics are the same or if different, it is understood why.  
Want to see if Kibble is aligned with GMD
    - We need volunteers for the use case blog – please see the
    [this link](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1p9FZM6rixjiEsxXQ7Ij-mbGCJKm_OrOQ6nd3oIBRnto/edit?usp=sharing)

-------------------

### September 12, 2018

  - Agenda:
    - Discuss possibly moving our project repository into a branch off of the metrics repository in order to facilitate easier long term integration
    - Metadata questions from last meeting. Review associated pull requests
    - Document contribution and prototyping process.
    - Review metrics status dashboard.

* We had some other meetings, see mailing list archives for agendas / minutes / links to videos.

----------------------

### April 19, 2018 (first meeting)
